# DSA-Analysis-and-Design_Portfolio

DSA Analysis and Design is a course focused on utilizing and understanding many data structures to develop an efficient and successful algorithm. With that said, the main problem that was to be solved with the project was to implement a data structure that was efficient in organizing a course list from a .csv file in alphanumeric order. To solve this problem, my approach was to write pseudocode and perform an Big O runtime analysis to compare data structures and determine which was the best for the situation (Project 1). Afterwards, I developed code in Microsoft Visual Studio for a BST implementation to solve the problem at hand (Project 2). This process highlights the imporance of understanding data structures becuase programming offers a open-ended way to solve problems. Though, as computer scientists, we look to solve problems with an efficient, but successful algorithm; for the purpose of saving the amount of computing resources. Its also important to understand the data structures as it allows the programmer develop techniques in manipulating the algorithm to suit the needs of a requirement. To overcome any roadblocks I had along the way, I looked back at prior programming assignments to help give me an idea of how to approach certain aspects of each assignment and project. I also asked my instructor for questions when needed.

My work on these projects has allowed me forn a deepeer understanding of the importance of writing pseudocode and performing a runtime analysis. Beforehand, I felt as though pseudocode and runtime analysis was just another form of getting the programmer to do busy work. However, after consistently working on these skills, I see the importance in developing both documents! As it allows for not only general audiences to understand the code and the thought process, but it also allows computer sceintists to gain a deeper understanding of their algorithm. Along with how it affects the overall software and program. 
